# :diamond_shape_with_a_dot_inside: Section I: Introduction - Overview of CI/CD Pipelines and Significance in Software Development
### What is a CI/CD Pipeline?
In the world of Software Engineering, CI/CD refers to the practices known as Continous Integration and Continuous Delivery. CI/CD pipelines are pipelines that, after receiving an initial set of code, conduct tests on the code through sourcing, building, and staging phases. After these phases are complete, the pipeline releases the code as ready for production.

CI/CD pipelines are significant in software development as they focus on improving software delivery throughout the software development life cycle by automating certain tasks.

### Significance of the CI/CD Pipeline for this Project
The main focus of this course was to build a CI/CD pipeline that would be capable of automating the Flutter application's build, test, and deployment processes.
By automating CI/CD throughout development, testing, production, and monitoring phases using this pipeline, we enjoyed the ability to develop higher quality code faster and more securely.

For a simple overview of CI/CD pipelines, visit this website: https://www.redhat.com/en/topics/devops/what-cicd-pipeline


# :diamond_shape_with_a_dot_inside: Section II: The DevContainer - Details of the Docker Container configuration used for Flutter development

###  Purpose and Benefits of the Dev Container
A DevContainer, short for Development Container, is a Docker container that is specifically designed to create development environments for software products. DevContainers have numerous qualities and features that make them extremely beneficial to the software developer and have caused them to become increasingly popular. The following are a few relevant benefits of Devcontainers:
- A significant feature of DevContainers is their ability to ensure a consistent development environment.
- DevContainers allow users to isolate dependencies and tools within them, which can later be accessed through any IDE of the user's choice.

DevContainers are extremely beneficial in the context of **Flutter application development** for the following reasons:
- The code in DevContainers will run the same way on any computer no matter what operating system the computer uses. This allows users to not have to worry about compatibility constraints that usually surface due to using different environments.
- DevContainers are extremely portable. Users can move their dev containers from one computer to computer and enjoy the comfort of working on their project on multiple computers.

For more information on Dev containers and to view an overwiew, check out the latest specfication, and view supporting dev container tools, visit this website: https://containers.dev/.

### Configuration of the DevContainer
To configure my DevContainer, the following steps were taken:
1) **Setting up a base image.** A Docker image was sued to set-up my Flutter environment. The purpose of the Docker image is to build, deploy, run, update, and manage my DevContainer.
2) **Flutter SDK:** The Flutter SDK is integrated into the development container using a feature derived from the GitHub Container Registry (GHCR). The Flutter SDK makes sure that the latest stable version of Flutter is available in the development environment and prevents the user from having to manually install the version.
3) **Any additional tools or extensions installed in the container.** Because I developed my DevContainer within VSCode, I used the Dev installer extension within VSCode. This extension allows for the use of a docker container as a full-feature developer environment.
Extension: https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.remote-containers

### Integration with VS Code
Visual Studio Code, or VSCode, is an editor that supports the Development Container specification and files with the .json format. It is able to make use of dev container properties to access and create dev containers. 

For this project, I used VSCode to develop my dev container. Through the use of the **Visual Studio Code Dev Containers extension**, I can use a Docker container as a full-featured development environment. 

### Usage
Include detailed instructions for setting up the dev container.



