# :diamond_shape_with_a_dot_inside: Section IV: CI/CD Pipeline

### What is a CI/CD Pipeline?
A pipeline is a process that drives software development through a path of building, testing, and deploying code, also known as CI/CD. By automating the process, the objective is to minimize human error and maintain a consistent process for how software is released.
Tools that are included in the pipeline could include compiling code, unit tests, code analysis, security, and binaries creation. For containerized environments, this pipeline would also include packaging the code into a container image to be deployed across a hybrid cloud.

### CI/CD Pipeline Setup
The meat of the CI/CD Pipeline is found within the `.github/workflows` directory. The `main.yml` file found within this directory contains the actions that automate the Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment processes.

In terms of **Continuous Integration**, the `main.yml` file achieves the following:

:heavy_check_mark: Clone Repository: The `uses: actions/checkout@v1` line checks out the code in the repository so that it can be used to set up the dev container and develop the app. 

:heavy_check_mark: Dependency Verification: The `flutter pub get` line retrieves the dependencies specified in the Flutter app's pubspec.yaml.

:heavy_check_mark: Test Execution: The `flutter test` line runs any available Flutter tests present in the repository.

:heavy_check_mark: Build the Flutter Application: The `flutter build web` line builds the Flutter web application for web development.

In terms of **Continuous Deployment**, the file achieves the following:


:heavy_check_mark: Deploy the App: The following lines set up a workflow that deploys the built Flutter app to GitHub Pages:

        name: Web Deploy - GitHub Pages
        
        uses: peaceiris/actions-gh-pages@v3
        
        with:
        
          github_token: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
       
          publish_dir: ./app/build/web/
   

### Utilized cloud services and local environments
The pipeline used Firebase Hosting, as specified in the following lines:

        uses: FirebaseExtended/action-hosting-deploy@v0
        with:
          repoToken: "${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}"
          firebaseServiceAccount: "${{ secrets.FIREBASE_SERVICE_ACCOUNT }}"
          expires: 30d
          projectId: flutterdilemma
  
Firebase Hosting is a static web hosting service provided by Google as part of the Firebase platform. It allows developers to deploy web apps securely to a global content delivery network with HTTPS support.

# :diamond_shape_with_a_dot_inside: Section V: CI/CD Tools
### GitHub Actions
For this project, we utilized GitHub Actions to automate the build, test, and deployment processes of the Flutter application. GitHub Actions is a continuous integration and continuous delivery (CI/CD) platform that allows developers to automate their  build, test, and deployment pipeline. 

GitHub Actions was utilized to take advantage of the many benefits it provides, including the following:
- Integrates seamlessly with other GitHub features, such as pull requests and issues.
- GitHUb Actions makes it extremely easy to manage entire workflows in one place.
- Can be used to create workflows that automatically build and test every pull request to your repository, or deploy merged pull requests to production.

### Relation to Project: Workflows
A GitHub workflow is a configurable automated process that will run one or more jobs. Workflows are defined by a YAML file checked in the repository and will run when triggered by an event in the repository, or they can be triggered manually, or at a defined schedule.

Any files stored in the `.\github\workflows` folder in the project repository signals to GitHub Actions that these files are workflow files containing configuration instructions. The only available workflow file for this project was `main.yml`. GitHub Actions took the following steps to execute the automated process:

1. Upon the event of a merged pull request to the brainch 'main', GitHub Actions spins up a **runner**. This is specified in the following lines of code:

        on:
        pull_request:
           types:
             - closed
        branches:
         - main
      
2. This runner runs the workflow file, reading through the code to find and run any jobs that are present.

Thanks to the tool GitHub Actions and their usage of workflow files, whenever a pull request is merged into main, the CI/CD Pipeline is executed which automates the building, testing, and deploying stages of the app lifecycle.


For more information on the purpose and significance of GitHub Actions, please visit this website: https://docs.github.com/en/actions/learn-github-actions/understanding-github-actions.
You can also view their documentation here: https://docs.github.com/en/actions.

# :diamond_shape_with_a_dot_inside: Section VI: Deployment Environment
### GitHub Pages
For the deploy portion of our project, a reliable, real environment was needed to deploy to and host the flutter web application. GitHub Pages was chosen as the application's deployment environment. GitHub Pages is a static site hosting service that takes HTML, CSS, and JavaScript files straight from a repository on GitHub, optionally runs the files through a build process, and publishes a website.

GitHub Pages was utilized because it provides many benefits, like the following:
- Publishes any static file that is pushed to the repository.
- Supports the creation of  static files build a site.
- Supports the customization of the build process locally or on another server.

### Relation to Project: Deployment Repository
The `gh-pages` branch of the GitHub Pages repository which is typically used for GitHub Pages hosting. The pipeline uses this branch as the deployment destination of the app:

In the workflow file, the code `uses: peaceiris/actions-gh-pages@v3:` uses the peaceiris/actions-gh-pages action with version v3 and automates the process of deploying a directory to the gh-pages branch of the repository.

For more information on the purpose and significance of GitHub Pages, please visit this website: https://docs.github.com/en/enterprise-server@3.9/pages/getting-started-with-github-pages/about-github-pages
