## :diamond_shape_with_a_dot_inside: Section VII: Flutter Web Application
### What is Flutter?
Flutter is Google's open-source technology for creating mobile, desktop, and web apps with a single codebase. 

Here are some ways that Flutter stands out as a cross-platform development framework:

- **Close-to-native performance.** Flutter uses the programming language Dart and compiles into machine code. Host devices understand this code, which ensures a fast and effective performance.

- **Fast, consistent, and customizable rendering.** Instead of relying on platform-specific rendering tools, Flutter uses Google’s open-source Skia graphic library to render UI. This provides users with consistent visuals no matter what platform they use to access an application. 

- **Developer-friendly tools.** Google built Flutter with an emphasis on ease-of-use. With tools like hot reload, developers can preview what code changes will look like without losing state. Other tools like the widget inspector make it easy to visualize and solve issues with UI layouts.

Here are some helpful resources involving Flutter:
- Getting started with Flutter: https://docs.flutter.dev/get-started/install
- Flutter Cookbook: https://docs.flutter.dev/cookbook
- Flutter CLI: https://docs.flutter.dev/reference/flutter-cli
  
###  Functionality of the Flutter App
The Flutter App that was to be developed was a simple Flutter demo named `test-drive`, found on this website: https://docs.flutter.dev/get-started/test-drive. 

The code found in the `main.dart` file of the demo sets up a basic Flutter application with a counter that increments when a button is pressed. It demonstrates fundamental concepts such as widget composition, state management, and theme composition in Flutter. The user can add changes to the code as they see fit, like settings changes and theme changes.

### Testing and Deploying via the CI/CD Pipeline
Within the repository, the source code for the Flutter app is contained within the `app` directory. Upon the established trigger--a merge request to main--, the workflow file that is subsequently run uses the source code found within this directory to accomplish app testing and deploying tasks:

1. The `flutter build web` action compiles the Flutter web application into a format suitable for deployment on the web.
2. The `flutter test` action runs tests that test features of the app.
3. During the deployment portion of the `main.yml`, the app is prepared for distribution to the selected deployment platform of GitHub Pages, as well as suited with the proper configuration settings, tested, and deployed.
