#  :diamond_shape_with_a_dot_inside: Section VIII: Conclusion and Overview of the Project and Personal Takeaways
### Project Summary 
The main objective of this course was to build a CI/CD Pipeline for Flutter App Development. To accomplish this, we did the following:

✔️ Built a Development Container leveraging the Docker platform

✔️ Efficiently stored the project's source code using Version Control tools, specifially Git and GitHub

✔️ Created a Flutter application that can be used to accomplish a niche task 

✔️ Utilized GitHub Actions - created workflow files to automate the build, test, and deploy files

✔️ Utilized GitHub Pages, a development environment, to host our deployed app

### :diamond_shape_with_a_dot_inside: Significance of the Project 
This project provided experience, insight, and heightened familiarity with a very popular concept within Sofware Development and DevOps. Building a deployment pipeline is crucial in the software development and DevOps process because it helps automate and streamline the process of deploying code changes. The concepts learned during this project are of significant weight when it comes to the modern software development industry.

### :diamond_shape_with_a_dot_inside: Personal Takeaways 
I learned a tremendous amount of information throughout the completion of this project. I also gained personal learning and working skills that I can take with me into classes and projects in the future. I honestly could write a whole page listing my personal takeaways from this course, but instead, I will focus on some the highlights:

✔ I learned a great amount of information about dev containers, especially having no prior knowledge of what they were. I learned about their significance in instances where multiple people are working on a project, how to configure a dev container, and all of the small components that make up a complete dev container.

✔ I gained many, mainy quality hours working with GitHub and have become much more familiar with the platform. This can help me tremendously if I am required to use the platform for a future project.

✔ I gained experience in a new language, Dart.

✔ I gained experience working with VSCode and Codespaces which has made me more comfortable with the IDE and all of the functions it provides.

✔ I learned valuable information about the shell and the terminal thanks to our early discussion of the concept found in MIT's Missing Semester webcourse.

### :diamond_shape_with_a_dot_inside: Challenges
I did encounter challenges when trying to successfully accomplish the tasks within this project. These challanges occcurred using both VSCode and GitHub Codespaces, and ultimately proved to be quite hindering.

1. One of the preliminary issues I encountered was setting up the path to my Flutter environment. When I would run flutter doctor, flutter would simply not be found. I eventually overcame this by 1) creating a new system environment variable that included the path to my Flutter SDK. 2) Making this variable the main variable in my system. 
2. A big issue I had was using Chrome as a device to run my app. For some reason, Flutter could not locate my Chrome executable, despite many attempts to direct it to the executable lcoation. I eventually gave up on trying to fix this issue, and moved on to deploying to the web.
3. When deploying to the web, a blank page would occur, and never result in the contents of my app. I did try to resolve this issue by looking at relevant files that might contain errors, like the main.dart or pubspec.yml, but could not locate a specific issue that was causing the blank page.
4. My last resort was running on Linux. At first, running flutter doctor failed for Linux and it let me know that the necessary dependencies for Linux were not installed. I overcame this by installing the necessary dependencies; however, after these were installed, I ran into a complication with 'CMake', where it seemed to not have located a certain package, despite the package being specified in the pubspec.yml. I looked into this deeply, but could not seem to figure out why the package was unable to be identified.

Overall, these challenges prevented me from actually seeing desirable output. However, working through these challenges strengthened my debugging skills and gave me a heightened ability to problem-solve, especially in matters that I do not have much experience with.

### :diamond_shape_with_a_dot_inside: Ideas for future Improvement
Although I did not get my app to fully deploy, I do know that many steps could be taken for improvement. First, I would definitely continue looking into my device issue, and figure out a solution to getting the Chrome and executable working. Similarly, I would focus on getting the Linux Device to properly work by resolvving CMake issues and complications. I would continue to try to get the build processes to work so that I could run the app and deploy it successfully.

Thank you!
